Hey, Udit. Good morning. Hey, Nakshi.
Good evening.
Hi Vignesh, I would it.
One second.
I have the time, Ignish.
He's there. He's me.
Hi, everyone.
Hey.
I'll switch on my radio and couple of
things.
Sure.
So I'm trying to log in from my personal
computer and I'm trying to join without
OK.
audio.
Join an account. Don't use audio join now.
Of admit.
Done. All right.
Hi, good morning, good evening.
Good morning, good evening guys. Long,
long time since we had this session.
Mhm.
I'll try and make it interesting and
worthy. So this is a topic very,
very near and dear to me.
I really love it.
So it's called modding where you
basically take a game,
understand how it works,
steal the files and in this case it is
actually allowed and even promoted by the
company itself.
So it's all very, very legal and ethical.
So you you take the game files and then
you modify them according to you,
you you sort of decode them,
you modify them according to how you want.
You encode it and publish it out there in
a marketplace where other people can
start.
Using your mod.
So it's basically a think of it as a
browser plug-in, right?
So how Google Chrome allows to have
plug-in and a plug-in marketplace.
Same way you can do it for games,
some games, right? Not all the games.
So the game that I play and really like
is called Fallout 4.
You might have heard of.
About the series on the Amazon Prime,
the Fallout series, web series.
So that is also there.
So why I wanted to talk about it is in
last three or four months I've made I
think a really good mod and I've realized
that it has.
Really pushed me beyond limits.
I if I now think back,
I had to apply each and every skill that
I have in order to make this mod actually.
So so there has been programming,
there has been designing, there has been.
All sorts of tools like Photoshop and
five other tools that are there within
that gaming world.
Of course there is a lot, you know,
a lot of help from AI and stuff like that.
And then there is a lot of product
specific work.
Where you sit down and think about what
might the users want and then what kind
of features should you then include in
your mod?
And then when you test and release it,
then what kind of feedback are you
getting and hence what should your next
cycle be?
So that's those are the things I want us
to focus on, of course,
apart from the cool game itself.
So let me see if screen sharing works for
the game.
And I'll first try and give you a demo of
them all. So I just started my system.
I'm putting the laptop.
You guys can still hear me.
Yeah.
Yes, yes, yeah.
Can you see my screen?
Yes.
OK.
So what I'm right now opening is a mod
manager.
So you as a consumer of mods would use
something like Vortex to to install to
manage all the mods. So think of it as.
Plugin manager for Chrome, right?
So all the all of these are all the mods
that I've installed.
Some of them are are my own.
Yeah.
So for example when we search for.
UK So all of those the ones that start
with UK in some shape or form.
Mhm.
I've tried to make those as as my mods.
Some are just for personal use,
some were for release.
So I'll I'll focus on one for now.
So let me see if the when the game comes
up the sharing still works.
Are you still seeing the black screen?
Hmm, it's loading.
Yeah, and.
It might take like 30 seconds.
Mhm.
So, um, a little bit of background. So,
so the game,
the company behind this game is called
Bathista and they have come up with their
own solution for the models, right?
It's called creation.
It's a separate software.
You use that to create these mods, right?
But.
So first,
of course you have to go on YouTube and
learn.
How it works.
It's as as complicated as like working in
VB like which is basic or or one of those
programming tools.
OK.
You use that or some other tools to build
this.
So I'll I'll first show the demo maybe
and then talk about what the model is
about.
Out.
Uh, just when I needed to load it faster,
OK, we can see, right? Yeah.
Yeah, and please stand by. It's.
All right, so.
Uh,
in this game you're basically supposed to
create your own settlements or places
where where you are a leader and you have
followers and you you all sort of live
together.
So you you prepare that place for all
sorts of.
You know, I mean,
it is like you need to have food,
you need to have water and stuff like
that. You need to have breads.
So these are my settlers, my fellow folks.
This is my settlement.
So now the the my key pain point in this
game was when you try and build things,
I'm in the build.
Mode now and you can build like furniture
and you can build beds and there is a
requirement on top.
You can see in the menu it shows beds 24
and that is in green because I have
enough beds.
So these are the beds that come by
default in the game right? And these ones.
The the designer ones are from another
mod, right?
So a lot of people make a lot of mods for
this.
So you can see this is like a a a better
design and and all of this is in like a
post war zone.
So that's why you know everything looks.
Oh, like this.
So now my my key problem was when you
place these beds and let's say this is a
room and I want to decorate it,
I have to actually go to each and every
menu item.
So I wanna place a bed and then I have to
go.
Maybe place a whatever cover and then I
have to go play something else.
So so there's a lot and there's a lot of
thought process.
So I came up with this mod for lot of
beds and spaces where if I.
Let's say place this bed here.
OK.
So I'm gonna place it,
then it automatically builds up things
around.
Oh.
So,
so what all has been has been controlled
by the mod is this new bed sheet right
that you see and and then it placed a
little foot locker,
a chair that you can actually use.
I can actually go and sit on that chair.
So it's it's like it's not just done,
it's it's a proper working thing and the
bed little bit of decoration and this
thing and then there's a capability to
change it so you can just.
Change it and it changes the bed sheet or
you can change the entire decoration.
So again there is this capability where
if I change the setting, let me find it.
So this is my settings so-called.
Is it too dark or is it visible for you
guys?
No, it's it's visible.
It's listening.
So if I say change option on bed changes
everything,
then now change would change everything
and not just the bed sheet, right?
So you see there is new kind of chair,
new decoration here, new stuff over here.
So like this, uh, I came up with uh.
Various sorts of beds.
So one this is for left and right.
This is like medium populated,
low populated sort of because this has
like everything.
Some beds have only a few things.
These are a different kind of bed.
If I place it,
it comes with a different bed sheet,
different things.
So all of these bread sheets are and you
know,
assets are created by me using some
software which I can, uh,
walk through and all of these things are
already there in the game.
I'm just putting it together and I'm I'm
also bringing like dynamic things so you
can see the fire.
Here that's like dynamic, not just static,
right? So there is this bed,
there's this bed.
And then this one was an update where let
OK.
me show you outside where there's new
space. So there's a bunk bed right now.
This is where I get to use little bit of.
You know my UX design sense.
So I've made the bed,
but then I've auto decorated it using
this.
I wanted to place these little bulbs,
some pots and whatnot, right?
So there is this and then.
Again, of course it works in the same way.
So I released this and after this I
started getting requests and I'll walk
you through those.
Mhm.
So my original idea was only to do beds,
but then people started asking me for
various other things.
So I did a dining right?
So you can just let me go in the light,
you can just place a rug.
Right.
And it automatically brings in a daily
space for you. Oh.
Dinner time.
Yes.
Yeah, Mary has a.
I have a question.
So you told people asked you to place
dining in on right?
So are you collaborating with other
No, no, no, no, it's just me.
I I listed it on a marketplace like I
people in this?
said and there I get hammits.
OK,
from the marketplace you get the comments.
Yeah.
OK,
so it's somewhat like an advanced version
So.
of Minecraft.
You can think,
think of it like this because even
Minecraft,
I don't know why it is sharing the wrong
window. OK, yeah,
so you can think of it as, yeah,
because Minecraft works in a similar way,
right? Like there are,
there is a marketplace and there are
things like this.
So I think we're running out of OK,
it's 912 only. So again,
you'll see there is this rug here.
I generated it in ChatGPT and did some
some further process so that it starts
appearing in the game.
There are these chairs and then of course
there's a.
Way to change the decoration so we can
change it and it keeps bringing in and
all of these assets that you see that are
very very Fallout friendly like in in the
Fallout game they they appear.
These things appear in some shape or form.
So for the folks who play this,
they understand what this is about and
then the latest one which I have not yet
released,
Mhm.
these three UCL thing because it's not
not released yet.
I'm trying to work on a living space.
Where if you place it then it it gives
you couch and this and then see this
little rotating thing.
Rotating car, yeah.
Yeah, so those little decorations,
there is light. It's all of that.
I won't bore you with with all these
details, but that's that's what, you know,
I was sort of working on.
Oh, any questions so far?
You created those 3D models, is it Udit?
Thought of not. So like I said,
I stole stole a few things.
I'm not exactly stealing.
It is allowed by the game itself.
So I I took those models and then I
applied my own textures.
In some cases I combined a few things,
a few shapes to come up with new shapes.
I I do not know how to operate in like
proper 3D software,
but I made my way through it by sort of
putting things together.
Right, right.
Eventually you can put a price on these
things, right? Like, like.
Yeah, yeah,
but the whole whole thing works for free
and I did it for fun. So if you see.
My mods.
So this is the marketplace that I use
like Nexus mods and this is the latest
one right?
Auto beds which is where I've listed it.
So why I call it a success is because you
can see that there are total 966
downloads.
61 people have actually liked it and then
if you see the discussion there are like
Yeah.
at least 50-60 comments from various
folks and people are post so,
Yeah.
so people from various countries I get to
interact with them, right?
So this guy's a Russian and he has posted
about some bug which is there and he has
been.
Uh, very helpful. You know, he or she,
I don't know in this. So, so um,
there has been and people are asking me,
hey, is there anything else coming in?
And I say, yeah,
I'm working on the couch thing or
whatever.
So that way it's fun.
So I keep getting feedback from folks.
Yeah.
You see,
there's 3 pages worth of discussion,
stuff like that.
So that's what I wanted to share with you.
And.
Like, you know, it's super,
super interesting world out there where
you just release this for free and you.
Learn a lot from it.
So this is the product part I wanted to
share where you you know once you are
working on this you you you'll start
getting more and more suggestions from
the people themselves.
Udit, how did you?
This is this is super cool, Udit.
How did you decide that like bed is the
first thing and second thing is that or
it's just out of your own thing?
Did you have some sort of a bowl or
Yeah, it's like.
something like that that?
Was another thing that I was thinking,
right?
Like maybe you can have your own road map
of. OK,
these are the next set of things that you
need to do.
Hey.
So, so no,
I did not have a road map back then and
And.
and I don't have a return road map yet
because this this was like for fun, right?
I did it out of pain point.
I did it because hey it's so so there are
Yeah.
like 28 settlements and each settlement
has like 20 settlements.
It.
So imagine you have to do like 500 beds
in the game, 500 beds,
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
500 decorations around it and then you
have to keep applying your brain every
And.
time.
I was like why can't I semi automate?
I do not want to fully fully automate it
because there are games that fully
automate it but then there is no fun.
Right.
Then you just press a button and
Find.
everything is done for you.
So there's no fun.
So you need to find that sweet little
spot. So that's what I was, you know,
trying to trying to do.
Like where is that sweet spot where
you're not letting computer do everything,
but it's it also doesn't become very
Mhm.
laborious for you.
Yeah.
So uh, that was the thing.
So I started with the bed.
I posted only the beds.
Initially the mod itself was called auto
beds and then later people started
commenting and then I renamed the mod to
Mm-hmm.
auto beds and spaces and I started adding
like spaces.
Mm-hmm. One key decorations.
Yeah.
What sort of a file is that Udit?
Like what file format?
Correct.
So now let's let's get a little bit
technical, right?
So in order to so I'll start from the
beginning and come, come,
come all the way here.
So if you see how other mods work and and
I'll keep it design focused rather than
very tech focused.
But how other mod mods work is there are
there are simply these either dot BA2
file or a ESP file or something like that.
And think of it as a zip and it has a lot
of stuff inside it, right?
It has the images, it has sound,
whatever you need,
those are there inside it.
So I first had to make those and then
think about zipping it and packaging it
right.
So I had my entire like factory sort of
an approach, right?
So to give you an example, here's,
here's the auto beds, here are the.
Three main things I need for my mod,
right?
So these are the 3D assets that you were
talking about Jaanvi.
So I'll show you bed deco.
So this is a tool called NIF scope and
this is a you know again but this stuff
format of 3D things.
So OK you see these bulbs here so so this
is one of the decorations and then.
Um.
Here is another one right?
So it goes and sits exactly at the place.
So what I was saying was I I'm simply
able to like take this and you know move
move things around and make.
So for example if I move it,
it moves like this and stuff like that.
So I keep copy pasting things from here
and bringing it. So this is 1 software 3D.
Software right that I work with.
The other one would be say I want to
change how this looks,
then I'll have to work on a texture,
not 3D software.
So those things would be here.
So for example I would generate.
Uh.
My own, let's say.
Let's see.
And a mistake.
Here. OK, so this is all done in again,
uh, Photoshop.
Where I have to convert it to a
particular format,
make sure it goes and says.
So this was the rug that you saw. Oh,
Mm.
this is this, by the way,
how the texture of the couch looks right?
Mm.
Mhm.
The couch that you saw.
So when while while so ChatGPT sometimes
is able to generate another version of it,
sometimes it's not.
Right.
So then it becomes manual where I go and
somehow paint it to to make make it look
different.
Sorry for the weird triangle because I'm
working on two systems. So yeah,
We.
so so you I work on the textures here the.
The main software is creation kit.
It'll take a long time to open,
so let me just show you.
Screenshot.
What creation kit work away phase?
So this is how it looks where you know I
have access to all the files inside the
game like grass, light, door, whatever,
whatever, all kinds of things.
And then you double click and open it and
then you edit it and keep keep editing
until.
You have achieved what you want and then
save it sort of.
So this is 1 main software that allows me
to to actually modify and create a file
that would do all of this right?
So of course that it was a long process.
I I've been doing it for 2-3 years maybe
and then that's when I've.
I've been able to reach at this phase
that I'm able to create a meaningful mod.
So this is involved with a lot of ChatGPT.
A lot of scripting is also there.
Right.
So all of all of the things that are that
you saw were coming on their own.
It is actually driven by script.
So of course I I take help from.
ChatGPT, but that's that's not it.
So one second script user.
Do you see your public source user?
So these are all of my scripts, right?
So there is like this script which which
allows me to place all of this.
So what I'm doing is I have slots for OK,
here's this is where the headboard would
come, this is where the bed would come,
this is where the rug would come.
And then I have a list from which I'm
picking what should come and then I place
it over there.
Sort of. So that's why I was saying it.
It took me like all of my all of my will,
all of my knowledge to to bring this all
together and and bring it. So yeah,
to answer your question, Vignesh, no,
I did not have a road map.
I just started with the beds.
I kept going with the flow.
The ideas kept coming, oh,
let me do this kind of bed.
Let me do a decoration,
let me do animation and let me do
lighting.
And then I I kept coming up with things.
And then community was so strong that
they started.
Interacting.
So the other piece that I learned here is
And.
the B2C world is so so different from B2B
which we are in right.
So of course I've experienced that that
earlier as well at Zimami,
Mm.
And.
but not at this level.
At Zimami it was like always.
Planned interaction with the users or
you're getting feedback through feedback
Yeah.
form,
but here you're releasing it on on the
Mhm.
same day. Hey, what the heck dude?
That thing is not working or it's OK,
you know it works in that mod and you can
go try it and you'll find it so sometimes.
Other models,
they'll come and they'll try and make
suggestions.
So it's it's a it's a great feeling
basically.
Yep, Yep.
And how do you? Yeah, yeah, go ahead,
Jack.
So like.
Yeah.
No, no, nothing. Nothing.
See I just thought of this one free tool.
If you want to use like there's something
like a called as Grabcat where you can
find all the different 3D files like
everything is free.
Yeah.
You can just download and you can make
use of it whatever you want.
Correct. So I I I did try those.
Yeah so not not this exact file but not
Like many things are there, OK.
Yeah.
this site but some other sites.
So for the rugs and for some textures
I've used it.
But the problem is like these games they
work on proprietary file types.
On the regular CAD file or you know,
3DS Max or whatever,
those files won't directly work and
you'll need some conversion.
And after conversion few things stop
working, so you need to fix those.
So it's a long, long,
long process to get from the download
button all the way to make it working in
the game.
So that's the.
So the other thing UX specific was there
are several mods out there that do
beautiful beds K or whatever. However,
the options are either either very
limited. They'll give like 2 beds.
Or they'll give 200 right?
And if you if they give 200 there are
mods there, then you go crazy by scroll,
scroll, scroll through your menu, right?
That's why I wanted to find that sweet
spot.
So what I've done is there are 24 beds in
my mod, let's say of one particular type.
But then you need to place only one and
it randomly selects for you.
Mm-hmm. Correct. Yeah.
Right. And then if you don't like it,
you can just change it.
So that's where I like found the sweet
spot.
That's where I applied a little bit of UX
thinking that how do I get the user
quickly to what they want and then give
an option to change to tweak.
Yeah.
And you have that element of surprise as
well, right?
Exactly.
Like you are not yet the system is
choosing it and that's that also is kind
Yeah.
Yeah,
and then the randomness is actually
of fun.
multiplied.
So you get a random random bed.
That's fine.
But then you also get a random table and
The.
then you get a random, you know, thing.
So every time you get something different.
Yeah, combinations and yeah,
a lot of different combinations of, yeah.
So yeah, that was that was cool.
One more take away I could think of is
the company's being cool with it, right?
Cooler.
So initially when you think of mods and
cheats in the games,
it was actually a glitch that has been
found by the community gamers, so.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah. So,
so this game has been there for 10 years
and Batista is having a mods section in
game itself and where.
So this is 1 marketplace,
but you can also upload on Batista's
marketplace also where the mod starts
Yeah.
appearing in game.
That is like a crappy experience. So yes,
the company is for it and they know
people.
This is the most modded game ever like
this and Skyrim, right?
That's because of the whole community
around it.
Yeah.
Yes.
And.
So I told about this to Sam that I I do
modding and all I think five months ago
or something like that when we had our
first meeting related to wipe coding.
So I did not know about wipe wipe coding
and Sam was like hey there is this thing
Mhm.
called wipe coding. Are you aware?
And you can simply go there and ask
ChatGPT to create a prototype for you and
he taught me that.
So and then we were talking that oh I do
game mods and he he got super excited and
he said oh if you do game mods then
actually white coding is is for you.
So so the the best part for me was.
Our leaders are so, so cool,
you know about it.
Right. Like, yes, go, go, go,
explore things,
go do what you want and use those skills
here as well.
So that that was very fulfilling.
Yeah.
Yeah, this is super cool.
And also I think you you wanted to can't
do this,
but initially you might not know about
the process and things like that, right?
It's kind of a step by you like you think
about first step and then you go through
that and then you.
Yeah.
Correct.
Kind of navigate your way through it,
like how we are currently in the AI world,
right?
Like we don't know the entire thing,
but we just go step by step and we figure
things. So yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's super,
super difficult,
a super unknown territory. Initially,
I did not know about any of the things.
There is no proper documentation
available.
All what you have to rely on is YouTube
videos.
Some other model has done something and
it has worked. So you watch that video,
you learn from it.
Yeah, that's a very.
And last one here, yeah,
ChatGPT has been super helpful.
Yeah, that's a very good mindset, right?
Because before coming to Athena,
like for me,
if I don't know the steps involved and
what I'm gonna do right,
then I would freak out.
But here with the type of projects that
we are working on, like we don't know the.
Entire space or the entire picture, right?
So we'll have to kind of jump in and then
Yeah.
we'll figure it out.
So I think that mindset has really helped
me to kind of do work here because
there's a lot of ambiguity here, right?
Like in everyone's project,
I think even in Malavika's project,
Exactly, exactly.
everyone.
It's project John.
We like everyone's project is like that,
right?
And initially we are in the mindset that
OK,
we need to know the entire space and all
that stuff. But yeah,
practically it's not OK.
Yeah.
Do you remember the rotating car thing
that I showed you the in the on the table
Mm-hmm. Yeah, the one on the the table.
top?
So how how I made it was initially there
was a big car. So the car,
the car toy is not there in the game,
it's only the big car on the street.
So I scaled it down and I simplified the
shape a little bit so it loads quickly.
For a small car.
So I got a small car and now I had to
find I I thought about can I can I make
it like a rotating thing?
So it was earlier not car, something else.
So I found a rotating object within
fallout.
I think it was a fan or something.
It was ceiling fan.
They they had this.
So I I made it upside down and then I
Mhm.
stole that animation and I applied that
same animation to the car and then so the
Mhm.
animation is also not straightforward.
You can't simply, like I said,
it is their proprietary format.
And same way I stole a pipe from
somewhere and downscaled it to make it
the handle, you know,
on which the car sits and put everything
Oh.
together, sort of. So yeah,
you you sometimes you just need to keep
going with the flow.
Yeah.
So that was my key take.
That's why I wanted to share it with you.
Yes.
Like it was challenging as well as
fulfilling. So not the game part,
but I my my key take away here is yes,
go go for the unknown.
Sometimes it'll take you all of your
skills and maybe 2 two more new ones.
That's OK.
OK.
Cool.
A couple of things I wanted to tell like
one is I'm not sure if people saw the
enterprise ChatGPT version, the e-mail.
OK.
Yeah.
I think people I just now signed up to it.
So I think everyone should do that and.
I I signed up for it as well.
Yeah, it didn't be good to that, right?
So that I saw you signed up, right?
Sorry.
I I saw your name.
I I did, I did. So it's right here.
So so there are a couple of things I'm
I'm exploring. What happened?
Why is it back to my?
Yeah,
this is your thing because you have your
GPTS.
I just signed up yesterday.
I don't anyway, so I I sign. Yeah,
No, you have to.
I'll have to sign out and sign in.
So a couple of things I'm trying to
probably I did it on my phone.
So we if you have used ChatGPT in the
past in.
In your personal thing,
I think we we will need to find a way to
dump all the context about me and bring
it to the new account. So yeah,
We can do the new one, yeah.
my my personal ChatGPT knows a lot about
me. It knows that I like modding.
It knows I'm a UX director here.
It knows about Athena,
Yep.
it knows about platform, it knows about.
It.
Yeah.
About the projects I've been working on
and whenever I ask a question, hey,
help me write this e-mail to Liz Kelly,
it brings in all of that information and
Yeah.
puts it. So I don't want to lose that.
So I want to find a way to put that
And.
information from personal to.
This thing so maybe I'll ask it to create
a dump and then do it,
but if if you are able to do that,
let me know.
Sure. OK. Yeah.
Sorry, you were saying Vignesh,
one other thing.
And that the the other thing was like,
did you,
did anyone of you look at the smart Lego
brick? I thought that was super cool.
Did you look at that with it?
Because your kid plays with it, right?
You have to.
They did a very cool video of that.
So it's called,
they're calling it smart brick.
OK.
So it's a very cool concept.
You just have to buy one smart brick and
you if you attach that to any of the
already built Lego toys like it will
react like if it's a plane,
you put that particular thing on top.
Top of it, right?
If you fly it then the flying sound will
come and if you add a pilot then a human
sound will also come and all that.
So it's really cool.
So like and if it goes upside down then
What?
As a light.
the pilot,
the pilot will react in a different way
and all that.
The colors are different so I don't know.
How they came up with that idea,
but it was super cool, amazing idea.
My God, OK.
So I was really inspired by that.
Like it was so very well thought.
Let me check it out.
Cool. Awesome.
Hope you found today's session useful,
inspiring, whatever. Next time,
please try and come up with something.
I'm running out of things to share.
Yeah.
Good. Yeah. Super. Thanks. Yeah.
Thanks everyone. Bye, bye. Thank you.
Alright, thank you guys.
OK.
Thanks. Thanks.